feat: initial setup for Sauce Visual (#2486)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/visual-testing.md

---
title: Sauce Labs Visual Testing
sidebar_label: Overview
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

:::note Important
Access to this feature is currently limited to Enterprise customers as part of our commitment to providing tailored solutions. We are excited to announce that self-service access is under development and will be released shortly. Stay tuned!
:::

> Get clear and instant visibility into the impact of code changes on your UI across browsers, devices, and operating systems with our automated visual testing solution, which generates side-by-side comparisons of your UI versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sauce Labs Visual Testing generates side-by-side comparisons of your UI versions. Get clear and instant visibility into the impact of code changes on your UI across browsers, devices, and operating systems with our automated visual testing solution.
```

Know exactly where and what has changed so that you can deliver a consistent and intuitive user experience.

Sauce Labs Visual Testing stands for:

<div className="box-wrapper" markdown="1">
<div className="box box1 card">
  <div className="container">
  <h2>Faster Test Execution</h2>
  <ul>
      <li>Purpose-built within the world’s best test infrastructure</li>
      <li>Fewer back-and-forth commands between client and server</li>
      <li>Based on efficient OSS framework</li>
      <li>No need to down/upload images</li>
  </ul>
  </div>
</div>
<div className="box box2 card">
  <div className="container">
  <h2>Less Complexity</h2>
  <ul>
      <li>Less code</li>
      <li>Less maintenance</li>
      <li>Less flakiness</li>
  </ul>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

## What You'll Need

- A [Sauce Labs Enterprise account](https://saucelabs.com/pricing) with access to Visual Testing. To request access, contact your CSM or Sauce Labs Support.
- Your Sauce Labs [Username and Access Key](https://app.saucelabs.com/user-settings).

## Workflows

> Sauce Visual testing consists of two main workflows: Test execution and review.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we use `Sauce Labs Visual` ?
```suggestion
Sauce Labs Visual testing consists of two main workflows: Test execution and review.
```

Author: That's a good one, I believe it's Sauce Visual, but will check with the Marketing team

Author: Fixed

Both workflows need to implemented, but they may performed by different people or teams.
Read below to learn more about the workflows.

### Test Execution

This workflow is responsible for generating snapshots (screenshots) of the website or app under test.
Users new to visual testing often have an existing test suite in WebdriverIO, Cypress or a similar framework.
With Sauce Visual testing existing test suites can be enhanced with a few extra "take a snapshot" statements and that is all it takes to implement this workflow.

[Follow me to learn more](./visual-testing/workflows/diff-generation.md)

### Review

This workflow is responsible for approving or rejecting detected changes between a snapshot and a baseline.
Users will be available to review changes and make the baseline evolve for approved changes.

[Follow me to learn more](./visual-testing/workflows/review.md)

## Concepts

Sauce Visual Testing comes with its set of concepts that will be defined here.

### Definitions

A **snapshot** is an image that will be compared by Visual Testing. For example: the screenshot of your website or mobile application.

> A **build** is a grouping of multiple snapshots in a same container.<br />

Reviewer 2: A **build** groups multiple snapshots. E.g. to be able to view all snapshots taken during the execution of your test suite in CI or locally.

### Review

This workflow is responsible for approving or rejecting detected changes between a snapshot and a baseline.
Users will be available to review changes and make the baseline evolve for approved changes.

[Follow me to learn more](./visual-testing/workflows/review.md)

## Concepts

Sauce Visual Testing comes with its set of concepts that will be defined here.

### Definitions

A **snapshot** is an image that will be compared by Visual Testing. For example: the screenshot of your website or mobile application.

A **build** groups multiple snapshots. E.g. to be able to view all snapshots taken during the execution of your test suite in CI or locally.<br />
A **build** has a status that represents its current state:

| Status | Description |
| --- |--- |
| `Empty` | There is no snapshot in this build |
| `Equal` | No difference has been detected between snapshots and the matching baselines |
| `Unapproved` | Changes have been detected and and action is needed |
| `Approved` | Changes have been detected and they have been approved |
| `Rejected` | Changes have been detected and they have been rejected |

> | `Errored` | An error has occured |

Reviewer 3: It should not happen. Should we remove it ?

> | `Errored` | An error has occured |

Author: Thanks, I've updated it to a table with "clearer" descriptions, can you please check it @FriggaHel

A **baseline** is what a **snapshot** is compared to.

A **diff** represents the differences that have been detected between a **snapshot** and its matching **baseline**.<br />
A **diff** has a status that reprensent its current state:

| Status | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Queued` | The processing is queued, and waiting for processing |
| `Equal` | No difference has been detected between this snapshot and the matching baseline |
| `Unapproved` | Changes have been detected and an action is needed  |
| `Approved` | Changes have been detected and they have been approved |
| `Rejected` | Changes have been detected and they have been rejected |

### Baseline Matching

> When a new snapshot is uploaded, Visual Testing will select the matching baseline and will looks for changes between the snapshot and the baseline.

Reviewer 4: "When a new snapshot is uploaded, Visual Testing will compare the matching baseline with the snapshot and look for changes." Perhaps?

> When a new snapshot is uploaded, Visual Testing will select the matching baseline and will looks for changes between the snapshot and the baseline.

Author: Thanks

> For a new snapshot, the matching baseline is found based on the following properties:

Reviewer 3: That has been added

> For a new snapshot, the matching baseline is found based on the following properties:

Author: lol, just commented on the wrong part. I've added a table with a "clearer" description, can you check this @FriggaHel

- `name`
- `testName`
- `suiteName`
- `browser`
- `operatingSystem`
- `operatingSystemVersion`
- `viewportWidth`
- `viewportHeight`
- `project`
- `branch`
- `device`

## Integrations

Sauce Labs Visual provides integrations with different frameworks.

> 

Reviewer 3: Done

- [Cypress](./integrations/cypress/)
- [Java](./integrations/java/)

> - [Storybook](./integrations/storybook/)

Reviewer 3: Done
